Enhance troubleshooting for pending jobs (#2185)
kubernetes-sigs/kueue: site/content/en/docs/tasks/troubleshooting/troubleshooting_jobs.md

  Troubleshooting the status of a Job
---

This doc is about troubleshooting pending [Kubernetes Jobs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/),
however, most of the ideas can be extrapolated to other [supported job types](/docs/tasks/run).

See the [Kueue overview](/docs/overview/#high-level-kueue-operation) to visualize the components that collaborate to run a Job.

> In the remaining of the document, let's assume your Job is called `my-job` and it's in the `my-namespace` namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this document, assume that your Job is called `my-job` and it's in the `my-namespace` namespace.
```

Author: Done

## Identifying the Workload for your Job

For each Job, Kueue creates a [Workload](/docs/concepts/workload) object to hold the
details about the admission of the Job, wether it was admitted or not.

> There are multiple ways to find the Workload for a Job.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To find the Workload for a Job, you can use any of the following steps:
```

Author: Done

> 1. You can obtain the Workload name from the Job events, running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You can obtain the Workload name from the Job events by running the following command:
```

Author: Done

  Troubleshooting the status of a Job
---

This doc is about troubleshooting pending [Kubernetes Jobs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/),
however, most of the ideas can be extrapolated to other [supported job types](/docs/tasks/run).

See the [Kueue overview](/docs/overview/#high-level-kueue-operation) to visualize the components that collaborate to run a Job.

In this document, assume that your Job is called `my-job` and it's in the `my-namespace` namespace.

## Identifying the Workload for your Job

For each Job, Kueue creates a [Workload](/docs/concepts/workload) object to hold the

> details about the admission of the Job, wether it was admitted or not.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
details about the admission of the Job, whether it was admitted or not.
```

Author: Fixed

> 3. You can list all of the workloads in the same namespace of your job and identify the one

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You can list all of the workloads in the same namespace of your job and identify the one
```

Author: Done

   job-my-job-19797   user-queue    cluster-queue True       9m45s
   ```

Once you have identified the name of the Workload, you can obtain all details by
running the following comand:

```bash
kubectl describe workload -n my-namespace job-my-job-19797
```

## Is my Job suspended?

> To know whether your Job is suspended, look for the value of the `.spec.suspend` field, by

Reviewer 3: Maybe also include info how to tell that the job is suspended by looking at the corresponding workload object.

Author: That's the next question: Is my job admitted?

running the following command:

```
kubectl get job -n my-namespace my-job -o jsonpath='{.spec.suspend}'
```

> When a job is suspended, Kubernetes will not create any [Pods](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/)
> for it or it will terminate and delete them if they were already running.
> 
> A job is suspended when Kueue hasn't admitted it yet or when it was preempted to
> accommodate another job. To understand why your job is suspended,
> check the corresponding Workload object.
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a Job is suspended, Kubernetes does not create any [Pods](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/)
for the Job. If the Job has Pods already running, Kubernetes terminates and deletes these Pods.

A Job is suspended when Kueue hasn't admitted it yet or when it was preempted to
accommodate another Job. To understand why your job is suspended,
check the corresponding Workload object.

```

Author: Done

The `Evicted` condition shows that the Workload was preempted and the `QuotaReserved` condition with `status: "True"`
shows that Kueue already attempted to admit it again, unsuccessfully in this case.

## Are the Pods of my Job running?

> When a Job is not suspended, Kubernetes creates Pods for it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a Job is not suspended, Kubernetes creates Pods for this Job.
```

Author: Done

> To check how many of these Pods are scheduled and running, you can first check the Job status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To check how many of these Pods are scheduled and running, check the Job status.
```

Author: Done

Run the following command to obtain the full status of a Job:

```bash
kubectl get job -n my-namespace my-job -o yaml
```

The output will be similar to the following:
```yaml
...
status:
  active: 5
  ready: 4
  succeeded: 1
  ...
```

The `active` field shows how many Pods for the Job exist, and the `ready` field shows how many of them are running.

> To list all the pods of the Job, you can can run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To list all the Pods of the Job, run the following command:
```

Author: Done

```bash
kubectl get pods -n my-namespace -l batch.kubernetes.io/job-name=my-job
```

The output will be similar to the following:

```
NAME             READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
my-job-0-nxmpx   1/1     Running   0          3m20s
my-job-1-vgms2   1/1     Running   0          3m20s
my-job-2-74gw7   1/1     Running   0          3m20s
my-job-3-d4559   1/1     Running   0          3m20s
my-job-4-pg75n   0/1     Pending   0          3m20s
```

> If a Pod or Pods are stuck in `Pending`, you can run the following command
> to check the latest events issued for the Pod
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a Pod or Pods are stuck in `Pending` status, check the latest events issued for the Pod by running the following command:

```
